so it looks like these birds have an
exceptional ability to spot familiar
food even from long distances this could
be something to do with the way they see
colors their retinas have four types of
color receptors we only have three
so some colors may stand out to the more
than others when it comes to choosing
something to eat
but what happens if the food doesn't
look like food to find out we're setting
up some more tests I've got real food
but I've disguised its appearance by
changing its shape and also changing its
color so this is actual food but it
doesn't look like it anymore but it will
still smell taste and feel like food if
they try to eat it
we've molded a sandwich capacity and
fish and chips into unusual shapes and
we've altered the appearance of these
with green food coloring will these
girls eat seaside snacks if they look
unfamiliar to them
two minutes in and a bold bird goes over
to the table yeah he's going in for his
first inspection the moulded foods get
the first look they're unfamiliar so the
bird is cautious but something's got its
interest birds can smell has this drawn
in once again a bold one is first to try
the food
tucked receptors in its beak and taste
buds on its tongue will tell it this is
edible he's gone straight for the
sandwich ball first and now there are
other birds joining him as if by magic
they're in our birds joining him 30
seconds from arriving at the table it
tried the unfamiliar food a bold risk
that paid off but there's something else
intriguing they still haven't touched
the green fresher chips so is the green
a deterrent they didn't like the funny
color they went for something it was
probably more familiar food eat white
color which was in this case was a
rather brown mush it's the vision that's
really driving it but even though they
don't seem to like the look of it
perhaps curiosity or the smell gets the
better of them they find you they fake
just on for the green man because after
four minutes they decide to give the
green food ago so what does this all
mean well when girls are searching for
something to eat its sights that's key
backed up when the food is unfamiliar by
smell touch and taste but our demo shows
something else as one or two bold
individuals that are kind of going first
once they've made contact with the food
and confirmed that it is food suddenly
all the others pile in from around so
they're obviously watching and watching
these two or three bold birds who had
sort of been the first ones to try these
things out in this set of tests a bold
leader displayed classic animal behavior
trying food before any of the others
here the bold goal risked going in for
the lion's share and with a cry claimed
it for his own
a cry that alerted the other girls to
the spoils
you